# Master Thesis

Software model checkers offer a variety of uses. Among them is the ability to produce quality test suites by generating tests from counterexample traces obtained through reachability analysis.

CPAchecker is a versatile verification software, employing value analysis to generate tests.
The problem investigated in this thesis centers around the inability of CPAchecker's built-in Test Case Generation Algorithm to check whether a newly generated test covers more than one test goal. 
As a result, test suites generated by CPAchecker tend to include a lot of redundancy, as most tests have the potential to cover multiple goals.


The presented solution to this problem is the extractor component, an expansion to CPAchecker which introduces multi-goal coverage to its Test Case Generation Algorithm. 
The extractor uses CPAchecker's value analysis to conduct an additional reachability analysis for each test generated.

This analysis determines if a test collaterally covers any additional goals, generating abstract successor states that are definitely reachable by the test input.

Benchmarks show that the extractor is very successful in covering test goals collaterally.
Test suites could be significantly reduced while maintaining the same coverage.
Savings in computing resources turned out relatively small but, overall, highlight a slight improvement compared to CPAchecker's original analysis. 
Integrating the extractor with the CEGAR variant of the value analysis is a promising option for further development.

## Links

[CPAchecker Project](https://cpachecker.sosy-lab.org)  
[Gitlab Branch](https://gitlab.com/sosy-lab/software/cpachecker/-/tree/CollateralCoverageDetectionWithValueAnalysis-extractor)

## Options for running  cpachecker with extractor component.
cpachecker --config /config/testCaseGeneration-valueAnalysis-Extractor.properties --option testcase.xml=test-suite/testcase%d.xml path/to/c-file.c
